# Driver-Drowsiness-Detection-and-Alert-System
##//This Repository is about detection and alerting the driver when he is feeling drowsy Drowsy driving is one of the major causes behind fatal road accidents. One of the recent study shows that one out of five road accidents are caused by drowsy driving which is roughly around 21% of road accidents, and this percentage is increasing every year as per global status report on road safety 2015, based on the data from 180 different countries. This certainly highlights the fact that across the world the total numbers of road traffic deaths are very high due to driver’s drowsiness. Driver fatigue, drink-and drive and carelessness are coming forward as major reasons behind such road accidents. Many lives and families are getting affected due to this across various countries. All this led to the development of Intelligent Driver Assistance Systems. Real time drowsy driving detection is one of the best possible major that can be implemented to assist drivers to make them aware of drowsy driving conditions. Such driver behavioral state detection system can help in catching the driver drowsy conditions early and can possibly avoid mishaps. Among these the major cause is due to driver errors and recklessness. Driver fatigue is cause behind such mishaps. Heavy traffic, increasing automotive population, adverse driving conditions, tight commute time requirements and the work loads are few major reasons behind such fatigue. With this project, we are presenting technique to detect driver drowsiness using of Open CV and image processing.//##
